---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

# DiscoPoP - Discovery of Potential Parallelism
DiscoPoP is an open-source tool that helps software developers parallelize their programs with threads. It is a joint project of Technical University of Darmstadt and Iowa State University. 

In a nutshell, DiscoPoP performs the following steps:
* detect parts of the code (computational units or CUs) with little to no internal parallelization potential,
* find data dependences among them,
* identify parallel patterns that can be used to parallelize a code region,
* and finally suggest corresponding OpenMP parallelization constructs and clauses to programmers.

DiscoPoP is built on top of LLVM. Therefore, DiscoPoP can perform the above-mentioned steps on any source code which can be transferred into the LLVM IR.

A more comprehensive overview of DiscoPoP can be found on our [project website](https://www.discopop.tu-darmstadt.de/).

## Getting started
The simplest option to install and use DiscoPoP is provided by the [graphical user interface](Tutorials/Configuration_Wizard.md).
For convenience, it provides the option to use a docker container to execute the profiling.
As a result, no setup of the environment apart from installing `docker` is required.
Please refer to the [Quickstart Guide - GUI](Quickstart.md) for further information.

For detailed instructions regarding the manual setup and installation, please refer to the [manual setup](Manual_Quickstart/Manual_Setup.md) page.

## Running DiscoPoP
After completing the setup, an instrumented Version of your code needs to be executed in order to gather the necessary information.
The included analyses and generated data are described [here](Profiling/Profiling.md).
The instrumentation and execution can be done [manually](Tutorials/Manual.md).
However, to simplify the process we suggest to use one of the provided tools (GUI: [Configuration Wizard](Tutorials/Configuration_Wizard.md), Script: [Execution Wizard](Tutorials/Execution_Wizard.md)), if your project fulfills the following criteria:
* Build system: Make
* Makefile allows to set the compiler using CC, CXX
* Build does not create shared libraries

## Pattern identfication
Once you have all the results generated by the DiscoPoP Profiler, you can use them to identify possible parallel design patterns.
To learn more, please read the [pattern detection](Pattern_Detection/DiscoPoP_Explorer.md) page, which explains how to start the pattern identification in detail.

## Pattern interpretation
After parallel patterns have been identified in the sequential source code, they need to be interpreted and implemented.
A detailed explanation how to interpret and implement the identified parallel patterns can be found [here](Pattern_Detection/Patterns/Patterns.md).
The previously mentioned pattern identification as well as the pattern interpretation can be simplified by using the [graphical wizard](Tutorials/Configuration_Wizard.md).

## Walk-through example
As a starting point, we have included a simple sample program which you can use to familiarize yourself with the system.
In the [manual Quickstart example](Manual_Quickstart/Manual_Example.md) you can find instructions how to execute every necessary step to obtain parallelization suggestions for the sample program, and how to interpret and implement them.
In contrast, the GUI [quickstart example](Quickstart.md) provides an overview of the simplest way to set up and utilize DiscoPoP on the basis of the same example code.


