docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

# DiscoPoP - Discovery of Potential Parallelism
DiscoPoP is an open-source tool that helps software developers parallelize their programs with threads. It is a joint project of Technical University of Darmstadt and Iowa State University. 

In a nutshell, DiscoPoP performs the following steps:
* detect parts of the code (computational units or CUs) with little to no internal parallelization potential,
* find data dependences among them,
* identify parallel patterns that can be used to parallelize a code region,
* and finally suggest corresponding OpenMP parallelization constructs and clauses to programmers.

DiscoPoP is built on top of LLVM. Therefore, DiscoPoP can perform the above-mentioned steps on any source code which can be transferred into the LLVM IR.

A more comprehensive overview of DiscoPoP can be found on our [project website](https://www.discopop.tu-darmstadt.de/).

## Getting started
For detailed instructions regarding the initial setup, please refer to the [initial setup](Setup.md) page.
A short summary of the necessary steps can be found on the [TL;DR setup](TLDR/Setup.md) page.

## Running the DiscoPoP Profiler


## Pattern identfication
Once you have all the results generated by DiscoPoP passes, you can use them to identify possible parallel design patterns. To learn more, please read the pattern detection [README](/discopop_explorer/README.md), which explains how to run pattern identification in detail.

## Walk-through example
In the `test/` folder, we have provided sample programs to help you start using DiscoPoP. You can find the walk-through example [here](Tutorial.md).

Commit message:

docs: added new pages and modified landing page

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
---

# DiscoPoP - Discovery of Potential Parallelism
DiscoPoP is an open-source tool that helps software developers parallelize their programs with threads. It is a joint project of Technical University of Darmstadt and Iowa State University. 

In a nutshell, DiscoPoP performs the following steps:
* detect parts of the code (computational units or CUs) with little to no internal parallelization potential,
* find data dependences among them,
* identify parallel patterns that can be used to parallelize a code region,
* and finally suggest corresponding OpenMP parallelization constructs and clauses to programmers.

DiscoPoP is built on top of LLVM. Therefore, DiscoPoP can perform the above-mentioned steps on any source code which can be transferred into the LLVM IR.

A more comprehensive overview of DiscoPoP can be found on our [project website](https://www.discopop.tu-darmstadt.de/).

## Getting started
For detailed instructions regarding the initial setup, please refer to the [initial setup](Setup.md) page.
A short summary of the necessary steps can be found on the [TL;DR setup](TLDR/Setup.md) page.

## Running the DiscoPoP Profiler
After completing the setup, an instrumented Version of your code needs to be executed in order to gather the necessary information.
The included analyses and generated data are described [here](Profiling/Analyses_and_data.md).
The instrumentation and execution can be done [manually](Profiling/Tutorials/Manual.md).
However, to simplify the process we suggest to use one of the provided tools (GUI: [Configuration Wizard](Profiling/Tutorials/Configuration_Wizard.md), Script: [Execution Wizard](Profiling/Tutorials/Execution_Wizard.md)), if your project fulfills the following criteria:
	- Build system: Make
	- No usage of shared libraries

## Pattern identfication
Once you have all the results generated by the DiscoPoP Profiler, you can use them to identify possible parallel design patterns.
To learn more, please read the [pattern detection](/discopop_explorer/README.md) page, which explains how to start the pattern identification in detail.

## Pattern interpretation
After parallel patterns have been identified in the sequential source code, they need to be interpreted and implemented.
A detailed explanation how to interpret and implement the identified parallel patterns can be found [here](Pattern_Detection/Pattern_interpretation.md).

## Walk-through example - TODO ADD EXAMPLE
As a starting point, we have included a simple sample program which you can use to familiarize yourself with the system.
In the [Quickstart example](Quickstart/Example.md) you can find instructions how to execute every necessary step to obtain parallelization suggestions for the sample program, and how to interpret and implement them.
